========================================================
(C)1993, 1994, 1995 Institute for New Generation Computer Technology
(Read COPYRIGHT for detailed information.)
(C)1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 Japan Information Processing Development Center
(Read COPYRIGHT-JIPDEC for detailed information.)
========================================================

KL1 to C compiler system: KLIC (version 3.002)
=================================================
Last Revision: Sept. 17, 1997
Takashi Chikayama (Univ. of Tokyo)
Tetsuro Fujise (Mitsubishi Research Inst.)
Daigo Sekita (Mitsubishi Research Inst.)

[1] What is KLIC

KLIC is an implementation of a concurrent logic programming language
KL1.  KL1 is based on a flat version of the Guarded Horn Clauses (GHC)
language.  GHC is a member of so-called committed-choice logic
programming language family and has siblings such as Concurrent
Prolog, Parlog, Janus and Fleng.

The KLIC implementation compiles KL1 programs into C programs, then
compiles them using C compilers of the host system, and then links the
objects with runtime libraries (including libraries provided by UNIX).

This distribution includes two parallel implementations. One is a
distributed memory implementation, which is currently based on a free
interprocess communication library, PVM (Parallel Virtual Machine).
And another is shared memory implementation which is available on SUN
SparcCenter and DEC Alpha.  

  KLIC --+-- sequential impl.
         |
         +-- parallel impl. ---+--- distributed memory impl.
                               |
                               +--- shared memory impl.

Caution:
Currently some serious bugs were found in a shared memory parallel
version.  Its bug will be fixed in next version. Thus, if you are
using the previous (2.00x) version of shared memory implementation, 
DO NOT update the program. 

[2] Execution Environment

The KLIC compiler that translates KL1 programs into C programs is
written in KL1 itself.  Included in the distribution is the compiler
already compiled into C, along with the original KL1 source files.

KL1 programs compiled by the KLIC compiler have to be compiled by a C
compiler and linked with the KLIC runtime library and libraries
provided by UNIX.

The system is meant to be portable to most UNIX systems.  The
sequential system has been tested on many UNIX systems, and runs on
virtually any system.

KLIC is now available on the following platforms.

Sequential Implementation:

Available on many platforms, including Sun Sparc, DEC Alpha, Linux on
IBM-PC, FreeBSD on IBM-PC.

	IBM PC/AT compatible running Linux 2.0.x
		with gcc-2.7.x
	IBM PC/AT compatible running FreeBSD 2.2.1-RELEASE
		with gcc-2.7.2
	IBM PC/AT compatible running Solaris 2.5.x
		with Sun SPARCompiler
	Sun SparcStation 10 running SunOS 4.1.3
		with gcc-2.7.x and cc
	Sun SparcStation 20 running SunOS 4.1.4
		with gcc-2.7.2
	Sun SparcStation 20 running SunOS 5.4
		with gcc-2.7.2 and SPARCompiler
	SparcCenter 2000 running SunOS 5.3 (Solaris 2.3)
		with gcc-2.7 and SunC 2.0.1
	Ultra Enterprise 3000 running SunOS 5.5.1
		with gcc-2.7.2.2
	SGI Indigo2 IMPACT running IRIX 5.3 *
		with cc
	IBM RS6000 running AIX *
		with cc
        etc...

*: The older version of KLIC was checked on these platforms, but the
current has not been checked. 

Parallel Implementation:

NOTE: In this distribution, fatal bugs were found in shared memory
parallel implementation. Thus PLEASE DO NOT REPLACE the old version if
you use KLIC as parallel version.

* For the distributed memory parallel implementation, the following
three types are prepared. You can select one of these versions while
configuring. 

	a) "pvm" version: This version is compatible with the old
	one. All the communications are done using PVM.

	b) "pvm-tcp" version: On this version, communications are
	done via TCP-IP socket. But PVM is still needed for the
	initialization of the system. 

	c) "shm" version: On this version, inter-processor
	communications are using shared memory. It is noted that this
	version is not identical with the "the shared memory parallel
	implementation". Shared memory is used just for the
	communication, i.e. there are no KLIC data on shared memory. 
	Thus the efficiency is worse than the real "shared memory"
	implementation.	This version DOES NOT NEED PVM.

Concerning with the efficiency of the inter-processor communication,
the "shm" version is the best and the "pvm" version is the worst. But '
shm' is less portable, and is available just on the following
platform. It may be harmful to port to the other platform (especially
to the other micro processors). 

	SparcCenter 2000 running SunOS 5.3 (Solaris 2.3)
		with gcc-2.7.0
	Ultra-Enterprise running SunOS 5.5.1 (Solaris 2.5.1)
		with gcc-2.7.2.1
	DEC 7000 AXP running OSF1
		with gcc-2.7
	IBM PC/AT compatible multi processor machine running Linux 2.0.x
		with gcc-2.7

The "pvm" version is highly portable (as I concerned), thus please try
"pvm" version at first if you want to use KLIC on the platform except
the platforms previously shown.

We should be obliged if you would report any successful or failed
installations on systems other than the above-listed ones to the
following address.

	klic@icot.or.jp

[3] Documents

A manual of the system is provided in texinfo format with the
distribution.  The source of the manual and preformatted info and dvi
files should be found under the directory "documents".

[4] Files

See the file MANIFEST.

[5] Installation

Installing the runtime system requires running the configuration
script Configure in the root directory of the KLIC system, and running
make.  See the file INSTALL for details.

[6] Functions provided

This system provides the basic execution mechanism for KL1 programs.

In addition to the basic functions, following functions are provided.

	- Some built-in predicates (integer and floating point
	  arithmetics, etc.)
	- Strings, vectors and their primitive operations
	- Tracer (stepping, spying, etc)
	- Input/output including asynchronous I/O on sockets
	  (not on some systems)
	- Priority control mechanisms
	- Parallel execution mechanisms

[7] Bugs

- Manuals are still incomplete.

- Parallel versions are still incomplete.

- Many mandatory features are missing.

- We are sure there are many others.

Please send bug reports and comments on the system to the following
address.

	klic-bugs@icot.or.jp

Please do let us know of all bugs or inconveniences you find.  That'll
help us improve the subsequent versions for all the users.

[8] Announcements and Information Exchange

Announcements of bugs, bug fixes, availability of newer versions and
so on will be made on a mailing list with the following address.

	klic-users@icot.or.jp

This same mailing list may also be used to exchange information among
users.

Please send a request mail to the following address to register in or
delete from this mailing list.

	klic-requests@icot.or.jp
